Diagnosis

To evaluate the diagnostic values of clinical characteristics for CTR, PBC, PBC+AIH, and AIH, we employed a comprehensive approach, together with random forest, to construct the models with 11 clinical variables, 
including sex, age, BMI, ALB, GLO, DBIL, ALP, GGT, ALT, AST, as well as PBC-specific antibody AMA-M2. 
The final model was evaluated using the receiver operating characteristic-area under the curve (ROC-AUC) values in the training, test, and validation sets (Clinical_nfeature_RFE_RF_classifier_multi.R).

To perform machine learning using serum proteins and IGPs, we developed a new pipeline named Best-Biomarker Combinations (BBC), adapted from the POC-19 methodology. 
Before the model construction, the proteomic and glycoproteomic data were scale-normalized. For a four-group classification (CTR, PBC, AIH, PBC+AIH), 
the top 10 increased and 10 decreased proteins and IGPs with the smallest P values (fold-change >1.5, P <0.05) 
across six pairwise comparisons (PBC vs CTR; AIH vs CTR; PBC+AIH vs CTR; PBC vs AIH; PBC vs PBC+AIH; AIH vs PBC+AIH) were selected and combined. 
The discovery cohort was divided into training and test sets at a 7:3 ratio using stratified random sampling via the createDataPartition function from the caret R package.
The BBC pipeline contained three steps: first, feature selection was performed using a filtration method based on differential analyses of proteins and IGPs. 
Second, candidate biomarkers were selected, generating 2,000 groups of initial biomarker combinations. 
Third, the final biomarker determination was based on the highest ROC-AUC values in the training set, 10-fold cross-validation in the test set, and an internal validation set (Diagnosis modeling 1st.R). 
Subsequently, the candidate biomarkers were subjected to a iterative feature selection procedure as described above. 
Finally, the secondary feature selection, model training, and parameter optimization were determined using a wrapped recursive feature elimination-random forest (RFE-RF) method for further optimizing feature performance. 
Additionally, the molecular features were integrated with the 11 clinical variables as described above, followed by a final RFE-RF step for feature selection (Diagnosis modeling 2nd.R). 
